Blog: New Chart Type, Customizable Icon and Groups as Dialogs Now Available in FlowFuse Dashboard (#2667)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/10/dashboard-new-group-type-app-icon-and-charts.md

---
title: New Chart Type, Customizable Icon and Groups as Dialogs Now Available in FlowFuse Dashboard
subtitle: Our latest update for FlowFuse Dashboard introduces a new group type, Dialog, a new chart variation, Histogram and customization support for the application icon.
description: Our latest update for FlowFuse Dashboard introduces a new group type, Dialog, a new chart variation, Histogram and customization support for the application icon.
date: 2024-10-11
authors: ["gayan-sandamal"]

> image: /blog/2024/08/images/dashboard-2-1150-release.png

Author: @joepavitt I will update with the new banner image once provided

tags:
   - posts
   - news
   - flowfuse
   - dashboard
---

> At FlowFuse, we strive to improve your dashboard experience by introducing features that enhance data visualization and customization. This update brings new ways to tailor your dashboards with key improvements, including a new chart type, a customizable app icon, and a dialog feature for groups.

Author: Thanks for the clarification Joe, I understood the point.

Updated the paragraph

## New Chart Type: Histogram

Histograms are an essential tool for data analysis, offering a clear way to visualize distributions. The latest FlowFuse update introduces a fully customizable histogram chart type, allowing you to present frequency distributions for data values. Whether analyzing performance metrics or user activity, histograms give you a clear view of how data points are distributed across predefined ranges. You can now easily group data and control the range, providing deeper insights at a glance.

![Screenshot showing the new Histogram chart type in the FlowFuse Dashboard](./images/chart-histogram.png){data-zoomable}
_Screenshot showing the new Histogram chart type in the FlowFuse Dashboard_

> With this feature, visualizing data distribution is easier than ever. Histograms are ideal for applications like monitoring error rates, analyzing sensor data, or displaying survey results.

Author: Removed the paragraph

---
title: New Chart Type, Customizable Icon and Groups as Dialogs Now Available in FlowFuse Dashboard
subtitle: Our latest update for FlowFuse Dashboard introduces a new group type, Dialog, a new chart variation, Histogram and customization support for the application icon.
description: Our latest update for FlowFuse Dashboard introduces a new group type, Dialog, a new chart variation, Histogram and customization support for the application icon.
date: 2024-10-11
authors: ["gayan-sandamal"]
image: /blog/2024/08/images/dashboard-2-1150-release.png
tags:
   - posts
   - news
   - flowfuse
   - dashboard
---

At FlowFuse, we strive to improve your dashboard experience by introducing features that enhance data visualization and customization. This update brings new ways to tailor your dashboards with key improvements, including a new chart type, a customizable app icon, and a dialog feature for groups.

<!--more-->

> ## New Chart Type: Histogram

Reviewer: Also add a paragraph in this section that sells the value of the Histogram chart type. It will do the grouping and frequency tracking for you. You can just pass the raw data, and it'll automatically put them into categories/bins and display the relevant frequency data.

Author: Added a paragraph that sells the value of Histogram

"The real advantage of this new Histogram chart type is that it simplifies the process for you. Just pass in the raw data, and the histogram will automatically organize it into meaningful ranges, then display how often each range occurs. This makes it incredibly easy to extract valuable insights without the need for manual data processing."

![Screenshot showing the new Histogram chart type in the FlowFuse Dashboard](./images/chart-histogram.png){data-zoomable}
_Screenshot showing the new Histogram chart type in the FlowFuse Dashboard_

With this feature, visualizing data distribution is easier than ever. Histograms are ideal for applications like monitoring error rates, analyzing sensor data, or displaying survey results.

## Customizable App Icon

Branding is an essential part of any user experience and with this new feature, you can customize your dashboard's app icon. The FlowFuse Dashboard now allows users to provide their own application icon, which appears in the browser tab and when the dashboard is installed as a Progressive Web App (PWA). This customization helps reinforce your brand, whether you’re developing IoT solutions, monitoring systems or creating dashboards for end-users.

> ![Screenshot showing the customizable app icon in browser and as a PWA](./images/app-icon-installation.png){data-zoomable style="max-width: 400px; margin: auto;"}

Reviewer: I'd go with a different screenshot here, or at least one that doesn't show `localhost`, looks a little unprofessional

Author: Took and replaced the screenshot with the interactive dashboard's demo instance with the PWA install prompt

_Screenshot showing the customizable app icon in browser and as a PWA_

You can configure the icon by navigating to the base UI settings (ui-base) and providing an icon URL. [App Icon Documentation](https://dashboard.flowfuse.com/nodes/config/ui-base.html#application-icon)

## Groups as Dialogs

> Organizing data on dashboards has become more efficient with the new "Groups as Dialogs" feature. You can now display specific widget groups in dialog windows that are triggered manually. This feature is perfect for decluttering complex dashboards or highlighting important metrics when needed. Dialogs can be opened using `ui-control` nodes, allowing you to decide when and how they appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organizing data on dashboards has become more efficient with the new "Groups as Dialogs" feature. You can now display specific groups in dialog windows that can be controlled (open/close) via the Control node. 

This removes the need for building custom modals and dialogs in a Template node, and makes the entire experience of building your dialogs low-code.
```

Author: Updated
